Plan.md, before:

# JetBrains Test Task: Full-text search

## Implementation Plan

- Implement naive full-text search. Load all the file content into memory,
  serially, and call it an index. In queries, just scan the file content.
  :white_check_mark: (12/01)

- Create an application under the same Gradle root project, which utilises the
  library to provide a CLI text search tool. :white_check_mark: (13/01)

- Create a small performance test suite which evaluates the library's execution
  speed, using some not-too-large datasets. :white_check_mark: (13/01)

- Parallel index building. Load the files into memory using coroutines which run
  in parallel. :white_check_mark: (13/01)

- Query indexed files in parallel. Search the indexes of different files in
  parallel using coroutines. :white_check_mark: (13/01)

- Parallel queries. Update the library so that there is a way to execute queries
  in parallel. Make sure that there are automated tests which cover this
  use-case too. :white_check_mark: (14/01)

- Add some larger datasets to the performance test suite so that the behaviour
  of the progress reporting feature will be easier to see visually. We will need
  to have fast-running automated tests for this behaviour as well though.
  :white_check_mark: (14/01)

- Report progress. Use the observer pattern to send events to the library's
  users to tell them whenever a new file has been indexed. Note, there is still
  no meaningful index. :white_check_mark: (14/01)

- Update the application so that it displays updates for index building using
  the progress reporting functionality provided by the library.
  :white_check_mark: (14/01)

- Enable interrupts. Create a mechanism for indexing to be interrupted.
  :white_check_mark: (14/01)

- Update the application so that the user can interrupt indexing. Users should
  be able to specify that indexing will automatically interrupt after N seconds.
  :white_check_mark: (14/01)

- Implement suffix tree construction in the library, using a standard algorithm
  like Ukkonen's. Ensure that constructed suffix trees can be queried for all
  the positions of a given substring in the string it was constructed from.

- Update the library's indexing function so that it both loads the file content
  into memory and builds a suffix tree from it.

- Update the library's query function so that it exploits the suffix tree index.
  Verify that the query performance of the library has improved.

- **First iteration complete**

- I'll plan the next iteration when the first iteration is closer to completion.
  Broadly speaking, the subsequent iterations will contain the file-watching
  requirement, developer-experience improvements to the interface, and
  performance improvements by the use of parallel algorithms for suffix tree
  construction, or even the use of another data structure if appropriate.

## Plan Changelog

- 13/01 morning : Initial planning

Commit message:

Update the plan. I am now spreading the suffix tree integration across two iterations.
Former-commit-id: 050df2f51cd2b211f4dfa54002e46c55e869fd51

Plan.md, after:

# JetBrains Test Task: Full-text search

## Implementation Plan

- Implement naive full-text search. Load all the file content into memory,
  serially, and call it an index. In queries, just scan the file content.
  :white_check_mark: (12/01)

- Create an application under the same Gradle root project, which utilises the
  library to provide a CLI text search tool. :white_check_mark: (13/01)

- Create a small performance test suite which evaluates the library's execution
  speed, using some not-too-large datasets. :white_check_mark: (13/01)

- Parallel index building. Load the files into memory using coroutines which run
  in parallel. :white_check_mark: (13/01)

- Query indexed files in parallel. Search the indexes of different files in
  parallel using coroutines. :white_check_mark: (13/01)

- Parallel queries. Update the library so that there is a way to execute queries
  in parallel. Make sure that there are automated tests which cover this
  use-case too. :white_check_mark: (14/01)

- Add some larger datasets to the performance test suite so that the behaviour
  of the progress reporting feature will be easier to see visually. We will need
  to have fast-running automated tests for this behaviour as well though.
  :white_check_mark: (14/01)

- Report progress. Use the observer pattern to send events to the library's
  users to tell them whenever a new file has been indexed. Note, there is still
  no meaningful index. :white_check_mark: (14/01)

- Update the application so that it displays updates for index building using
  the progress reporting functionality provided by the library.
  :white_check_mark: (14/01)

- Enable interrupts. Create a mechanism for indexing to be interrupted.
  :white_check_mark: (14/01)

- Update the application so that the user can interrupt indexing. Users should
  be able to specify that indexing will automatically interrupt after N seconds.
  :white_check_mark: (14/01)

- Implement suffix tree construction in the library, using the naive cubic time
  algorithm which is the basis for Ukkonen's linear-time construction algorithm.
  Ensure that constructed suffix trees can be queried for all the positions of a
  given substring in the string it was constructed from.

- Write a fuzz test suite which provides confidence that the query results from
  the suffix tree index are equal to the results for the naive index. This is to
  ensure that any bugs in the suffix tree implementation are caught as early as
  possible.

- Update the library's indexing function so that for small files, it both loads
  the file content into memory and builds a suffix tree from it.

- Update the library's query function so that it exploits the suffix tree index.
  Verify that the query performance of the library has improved.

- Update the suffix tree construction code so that it uses Ukkonen's linear-time
  algorithm.

- Update the library's indexing function so that it builds a suffix tree index
  even for bigger files - maybe even all files, if that is feasible.

- **First iteration complete**

- I'll plan the next iteration when the first iteration is closer to completion.
  Broadly speaking, the subsequent iterations will contain the file-watching
  requirement, developer-experience improvements to the interface, and
  performance improvements by the use of parallel algorithms for suffix tree
  construction, or even the use of another data structure if appropriate.

## Plan Changelog

- 13/01 morning : Initial planning
- 18/01 morning : Split suffix tree index integration into two iterations.
